Create documentation about upgrade (#170)
kyma-project/control-plane: docs/kyma-environment-broker/08-05-orchestrate-kyma-upgrade.md

---
title: Upgrade Kyma Runtime using KEB
type: Tutorials
---

This tutorial shows how to upgrade Kyma Runtime using Kyma Environment Broker.

## Prerequisites

- Compass with:

>   * Runtime Provisioner [configured](/control-plane/runtime-provisioner/#tutorials-provision-clusters-through-gardener) for Azure provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Runtime Provisioner [configured](/control-plane/runtime-provisioner/#tutorials-provision-clusters-through-gardener) for Azure
```

  * Kyma Environment Broker configured and chosen [overrides](#details-set-overrides-for-kyma-runtime) set up

## Steps

1. Export these values as environment variables:

   ```bash
   export RUNTIME_ID={RUNTIME_ID}
   ```

> 2. Get the [access token](#details-authorization). Export this variable based on the token you got from the OAuth client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Get the access token](#details-authorization). Export this variable based on the token you got from the OAuth client:
```

   ```bash
   export AUTHORIZATION_HEADER="Authorization: Bearer $ACCESS_TOKEN"
   ```

3. Make a call to the Kyma Environment Broker to orchestrate the upgrade.

> >**NOTE:** **dry** parameter specified to in the request body to `true` causes that upgrade is executed in a fake mode. It means that actions are not executed against selected runtimes but the Orchestration status is still available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** The **dry** parameter specified in the request body is set to `true`. This causes that the upgrade is executed in a fake mode. It means that all actions are not executed against selected Runtimes but the Orchestration status is still available.
```

Reviewer: I'd like some explanation about this fake mode 😄

> >**NOTE:** The **dry** parameter specified in the request body is set to `true`. This causes that the upgrade is executed in a fake mode. It means that all actions are not executed against selected Runtimes but the Orchestration status is still available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** The **dry** parameter specified in the request body is set to `true`. As a result, the upgrade is executed in a fake mode. It means that all actions are not executed against selected Runtimes but the Orchestration status is still available.
```

   ```bash
   curl --request POST "https://$BROKER_URL/upgrade/kyma" \
   --header "$AUTHORIZATION_HEADER" \
   --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
   --data-raw "{
       \"targets\": {
           \"include\": {\
               \"runtime_id\": "uuid-sdasd-sda23t-efs",
            },
       },
        \"dry\": false,
   }"
   ```

A successful call returns the orchestration ID:

   ```json
   {
       "orchestration_id":"8a7bfd9b-f2f5-43d1-bb67-177d2434053c"
   }
   ```

> 4. Check the operation status as described [here](#tutorials-check-orchestration-status).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. [Check the operation status](#tutorials-check-orchestration-status).
```
